# Yield protocol
So, the third module DeFi Deep Dive focuses on derivatives. And we'll talk about a couple of protocols in some detail. But I want to start with yield protocol. So, what is Yield protocol? So, Yield protocol is essentially a way to get a rate that is relatively fixed. We've talked about this before. So, think about the Yield protocol is creating a condition like a zero-coupon bonds. And zero-coupon bonds works in the following way and I'll give you a simple example. Suppose the bond has got one year to maturity and the price at maturity or the principle is worth 100. And the price today to actually buy that bond is $90. So, If you buy that bond at 90, you hold it for a year. There's no coupon. But at the end of the year you get 100. And in doing that, if you hold to maturity, you've locked in a rate. And that rate is 11.1% and you can work that out. Just 100 divided by 90. subtract one. Okay, so within the device space these rates are variable as we'll see. So, the Yield protocol uses ERC-20 in a very interesting way. And I'm going to take you through the mechanics of an example. It's a little challenging this example, I must admit. But it's important for you to basically get it. So, we're going to use a token. A white token that we've kind of talked about these tokens before. We talked about a C token for compound and S token for synthetics. So, we're going to use a like a white token for this. And we'll go through how this actually works with collateral in considerable detail. But the key thing is that one of the things that is missing currently in the DeFi space. Is the ability to have some sort of stability in a burrow rate. So, let's kind of go through some examples here. I suppose you think that ETH is going to appreciate by 10% over the next year. Because that's your view. So, what you can do is deposit your ETH into let's say maker. And borrow DAI. And pay 3% in terms of an interest rate. And maybe you actually reinvest and buy some more. Either that's a possibility. We've been through the mechanics as to how to do that. So, if the ETH goes up by 10% you can do the methematics that well. Your assets goes up by 10%. You have borrowed and you need to pay 3%. So, you've got a profit of 7%. So that works so well the problem is that that rate that's 3% is not set in stone. They can change. And if that rate for example went to 10% then even if the maker goes up in value. You have to pay the 10% and you make nothing. So, I'm trying to motivate actually having a rate that is fixed. So, you can kind of lock in at least according to your expectations. Kind of a known, right? So, and this is what a Yield protocol actually does. And I'm just showing here some examples of interest rates dYdX. Which we're about to talk about. You can see the average interest rate, the 30 day average and the range. Indeed, if we go to a longer horizon and here I'm showing compound dYdX maker. And a job you can see very significant variation in these borrowing rates. Okay, so again, it makes sense that there's a market for this. So, indeed, again, in centralized finance, we know this pretty well. So, I could take out a fixed rate mortgage and I know what the rate is and I know all of the payments to maturity. Or I could take out a variable rate mortgage. And well that might be cheaper, let's say today than a fixed rate mortgage. Who knows what's going to happen to the rate in the future. Okay. So, think of this Yield protocol as completing an important market. Okay. So, basically what we're going to do here. We'll have tokens that are secured by collateral assets. So, of course we need collateral, like all of the DeFi our protocols, there's going to be a maintenance margin. And we've talked about this with the makerDAO. And if there's a situation where we dropped below the collateralization ratio, the keepers are going to come in. And they will liquidate and essentially pay back the debt on the liquidation. So this is very similar to what we've seen. But it is a little curious as to how we're going to get a fixed rate in terms of borrowing. And that's what we're going to explore next.

# Mecanics
Let's go through the mechanics of yield protocol. It is intriguing that there's a possibility of having a fixed rate borrow within this particular protocol. We'll use this yToken. The yToken, as I said, will effectively allow for a fixed-rate of borrowing and lending. It's going to act like a zero-coupon bond. The example I gave you of where we buy a bond at 90, hold it for a year, we get a 100 and that rate of return is fixed at 11.1 percent. The same idea is going to happen here. You've got a yToken with the target asset of, let's say 1 DAI, so one dollar, and that's backed by collateral, which is ether, and the maturity date is one year. The yToken is trading at, let's say 0.92 DAI, so 92 cents. This we're going to use and we'll go through the mechanics so you'll see what actually happens. That at the end of the year, the 0.92 goes to 1. Think of the 0.92 as the zero-coupon bond. Effectively what we're locking in is 8.7 percent. Again, that's calculated in terms of the gain, the eight cents divided by the 92 cents, and that is 8.7 percent. There's something else that's interesting that we'll talk about a little later. That is, if you buy this looking for the 8.7 percent return and something happens under collateralization, actually you get paid your 8.7 percent and that could happen before the full year period. It might be you're just holding for a month. If there is an event where the collateralization ratio is pierced, then everything is unbound and you get the 8.7 percent. Very interesting the way that this is actually a constructor. Let's go through the mechanics. I've got a diagram here and basically the buyer of the yDAI is basically going to lock in an 8.7 percent return. To start things off, we've got ether that equals 200 DAI and there's a collateralization ratio of 125 percent. The first step is that ether is supplied as collateral. The second step is that, I call the seller, mints 100 yDAI.
Play video starting at :3:24 and follow transcript3:24
The next thing is that the buyer is going to purchase that 100 yDAI and pay 92 DAI to the seller. Think about what's happening here. We're using this yDAI, but effectively the seller here is basically getting 92 DAI. That's where we start. Then in one year, the buyer is going to deposit the 100 yDAI, which they've got, and they will get 100 DAI. The buyer, remember at the beginning, pays out to the seller 92 DAI and in the end when they deposit the 100 yDAI, they get back 100 DAI. The rate of return, in this particular example, 100 divided by the 92, subtract 1, 8.7 percent. It's, in my opinion, ingenious idea to actually introduce fixed-rate borrowing and lending into the DeFi space. Let's continue with the example and look at different scenarios. In the first scenario, in my diagram, we've got a situation where the price of ether falls below the maintenance point. The maintenance point was 125. The price of ether drops below that. What happens in this particular case? Step number 1, there's a keeper that comes in, sees that the position is under collateralized and basically what they do, is they sell 0.8 ether. In selling the 0.8 ether, they effectively pay back the loan of a 100 DAI. What happens here is that as soon as that event occurs, as soon as the keeper comes in, the buyer actually gets the 100 DAI. Remember that the buyer came in and actually paid 92. On the closing, the buyer gets the 100. They were expecting to get the 100 after one year, but this can happen after one day and they get the 8.7 percent. This is a great deal for the buyer. Obviously, for the seller, it isn't a great deal. Just to be a 100 percent clear here, I'm using buyer just in the same way is if I was buying a zero-coupon bond. I buy a zero coupon bond for 92 and hold it for a year, I get a 100. So it's 8.7 percent. Think of this, the analogous situation. There's a liquidation event. The keeper comes in, liquidates and then basically pays the buyer the a 100 early. You get this 8.7 percent return over a short period of time and obviously, if you annualize that rate of return, it's much greater than 8.7 percent. This works really well. Of course, the borrower would get back 0.2. Remember, only 0.8 of the ether was used to pay back. The seller would get a 0.2 back, but there's also a keeper reward and that would ETH into whatever refund there was. In the end, the seller, what do they have? They've got the 92 DAI and they got the 0.2 ETH. This is just one example of how this works and I call this scenario A. What about Scenario B? Let's supposed nothing happens to the price of ether, so remains constant at 200 DAI. Basically you've got the same steps. The buyer, they deposit the 100 yDAI and then essentially what happens is that they get their 100 DAI. They've locked in their 8.7 percent rate of return and the seller well, they can basically withdraw the 0.5 that's leftover, and essentially what they've got is 92 DAI and 0.5 of an eighth. Again, this is the mechanics. One is liquidation, one is no liquidation and of course, what happens to the seller here greatly depends upon the price of ether, because I've actually pledged ether as collateral. For the buyer it's straightforward. The buyer is going to get 8.7 percent and that's it. It's extremely interesting type of system here.
Play video starting at :9:23 and follow transcript9:23
There are some other aspects to what actually happens here and the important thing to realize is that from the point of view of the buyer, this is a way to lock in a rate of return. What else is going on with yield protocol? One thing that's also interesting, and again, we haven't had this yet in DeFi, is this idea of potentially using the YTokens to construct yield curves. Yield curve is the yield depending upon the maturity. In the world of centralized finance, you have a rate for, let's say treasury bills, which might be 90 days, a one-year bond, a five-year, 10-year, 30-year bond. Each of those yields is different. Usually the yield curve is upward sloping and that tells us something about expected inflation, about expected real activity, the state of the economy. Indeed, my dissertation at the University of Chicago showed that when the yield curve was reversed, where the long-term rates were actually lower than the short-term rates. That contains very important information about the onset of a recession. Yield curves are extremely useful and this protocol actually allows us to construct yield curves also. I just went through a detailed example looking at a one-year horizon for locking in an 8.7 percent return. Well, it doesn't have to be one year. It could be one month, it might be five years. In doing this, where be take a look at the actual price here, we can figure out what the yields look like for different maturities and that gives us insight into what the market participants are actually thinking about the future. Think of it as a measure of sentiment. Very valuable undeveloped yet. This is very early on, but it gives us something equivalent to what we've got in centralized finance which could be useful, but a much more efficient implementation of this. There's other things that you can do with your protocol. One thing that's obvious is that you could speculate on interest rates with this protocol. We've got lots of protocols we've talked about that have variable interest rates.
Play video starting at :12:32 and follow transcript12:32
You might have a view on these interest rates. For example you can imagine being a seller of Y dye and then using some of the dye derivative assets as collateral. When you do that essentially the seller is paying a fixed rate on the Y dye, but you're receiving a variable rate on the collateral. This is a bet that rates will increase. Again, many of you who operate in the world of centralized finance will recognize this trade. Again given that this area of decentralized finance is so early, we are going to to see more and more of these ideas that are popular in centralized finance replicated in decentralized finance. Basically completing all of the missing components. Again this is a very straightforward way to pay fixed and receive floating could be the reverse. You could receive fixed and pay floating that's a possibility to you and very easy to implement with this protocol. Yield is a very good idea, it supplies something that we haven't had in DeFi. DeFi is a young space. I can't say we haven't had for decades because the space is like four years old. But it gives you an idea of how rapidly the space actually evolves. Just like other DeFi protocols, we've got the DeFi Legos. Yield easily integrates with the other DeFi protocols, it's ERC 20. It means that you can use yield along with these other protocols.
Play video starting at :14:49 and follow transcript14:49
Some investors are uncomfortable with variable rate loans now we've got the possibility of a fixed rate. Let's go through our list that we usually go through for these protocols. We've got the traditional finance problems, is a decentralized control. This is decentralized and there's nobody really controlling this protocol other than the governance. Limited access we've talked about in centralized finance. Well, yield Solution is that any market participant can actually do the buying or selling to lock in a rate, our example of 8.7 percent is one example of a rate that you can lock in. Inefficiency. This is important. We've talked about this that when you go apply for a loan at a bank, the rate that you're paying is higher than it would be because the bank has got all this infrastructure that they need to pay for. The brick and mortar, the bureaucracy, all of the security issues, all that needs to be paid for. Yield is algorithmic. It is very lean running on a theorem and can be more competitive than centralized finance. Lack of interoperability, well known in terms of fixed income instruments in traditional finance is extremely difficult to think about buying a five-year bond and selling a one-year bond. To swap those two is going to be costly. Whereas yield protocol, this is very straightforward, it interoperable with any a theorem target asset. The last thing, opacity. It is really something that is very typical and decentralized finance. This is completely open. You can see everything and it's easy. We will go through examples a little later where I will pull up ether scan and you can see the actions step by step. Of course that is not possible in traditional centralized finance.

# DyDx

In the third module, we're going to study derivatives. The logical place to start is with the protocol and I love the name dYdX. What is dYdX? Basically, this is a company that specializes in trading. It is margin trading and derivatives and we're going to talk about some of their innovative products. Basically the margin protocols they are supported by USDC, DAI, and ETH. This is within the Ethereum blockchain and there's a spot exchange and it's got a lot of similarities in terms of some of the decks that we've already studied previously and we're going to go through and take a look at that. What's interesting with dYdX is that there's a hybrid on-chain off-chain approach using layer 2, which we will talk about in some detail. Essentially think about what's happening is dYdX is storing basically pre-approved orders that are signed and then when the trade actually occurs, then that is submitted to the Ethereum blockchain. This basically saves a lot in terms of fees because you don't want to be doing everything on chain. Layer 2 is a way to actually get great speed. It's got security, but at next to no fee. There's no gas fee for this. The only gas fee that occurs is when we actually go on chain and actually do the trade. Think of this as well, I'm willing to buy ETH at a certain price. Well, you can actually have assign transaction for that, but it's not actually occurring. It's that you're willing to buy at a certain price, but it's not at that price. But if that price actually is realized, then the order goes through and then there would be a fee associated with that. Very nice idea. This supports limit orders where you can put like a limit or a range in for your order and also the idea of maximum slippage, which we talked about briefly in the second course and that is that if the price moves against you to a certain degree then the order is canceled, so you put a maximum amount of slippage into the contract. This is what it looks like. This is just the spot trading of ETH and DAI and you can see the actual order book on the left. You can see what the leverage factors are to the far left. You can see actually the spread and that is I've got a yellow arrow on it and it's really tiny. This is an exchange that's got sufficient liquidity that the spreads are really small and these spreads are smaller than we would experience in, for example, trading highly liquid stocks in the US, like Apple stock. This is just an example of what you can actually do, and indeed you can trade on margin. One thing I will mention is that trading cryptocurrencies is a very volatile business. Ethereum is is at least five or six times more volatile than the S&amp;P 500. When you use leverage, you increase the effect of volatility even more. But some people want to do that. That's fine. There's great upside potential, but also very significant downside potential. Again, the way that this works is that there's matching of orders to the buying and the selling and this is done in a way that there's no middle person. This is decentralized. It's not like there's a broker that could go rogue and steal your money. No, this is just an open protocol. Indeed, there's a history in finance of brokerages that basically go under. Indeed in the global financial crisis, that's exactly what we had and people lost billions of dollars. Again, when we do have a match, then that match is submitted to the memory pool and eventually goes in to the Ethereum blockchain. With dYdX, as I mentioned, you can do leverage, and the maximum leverage right now is about 10 times. Again, this is possible for long or short positions. Again, you need to be careful when you use leverage like this on an already volatile asset, again, the rewards can be very substantial. We've got keepers also, no surprise. Keepers are very important for all these protocols. If the maintenance margin requirement is violated, then the keepers are going to come in. Again, this is not algorithmic. I want everybody to really understand that, that this is not part of a contract. That there are external players, are externally owned accounts that see the opportunity and they trigger the liquidations. Again, the same story and other protocols, these keepers are rewarded for actually doing that because this is a service to the protocol and they actually get paid for it. The incentives are aligned to actually do this. Let's talk about lending and borrowing. It's similar to compound and Aave in terms of what dYdX does. DYdX also has flashed loans. We talked about this with Aave. With Aave, the fee for the flash loan is really small. I said at that point that, well, it's really small because it really isn't any cost. Again, if you think of a traditional loan, just think about all the paperwork that you have to go through, all the time spent in actually applying for a loan, doing credit check, all of this stuff. But the flash loan is just a transaction with many steps to it.
Play video starting at :8:11 and follow transcript8:11
DydX, the flash loans are free. That's interesting. There's no fee. I thought that a handful of basis points for Aave was a great deal because it was so cheap. Well, this is free and maybe it's no surprise that in a system that doesn't really have traditional costs, there's always a gas fee. But that applies to anything that the actual fee that the protocol takes is zero. That's a difference between Aave and dYdX.

# Flas loans
Let's talk a little more about flash loans. You can tell that I'm very interested in the flash loans because we've covered them already once, but I want to talk about them again. It's such an ingenious idea. So dydx, as I mentioned, it's got free flash loans. It makes sense that within this particular space, if there's no particular cost, then the price is basically proven to zero. It's is like the theoretical world of perfect competition in economics. Your basic economics course we talk about, the conditions whereby supply will equal demand and there's no monopoly power and things like that. This is that situation and the cost is driven to zero. The lending rates are basically usually defined by the riskiness of the actual loan and the duration. A longer duration loan usually has a higher rate because there's a longer period for a bad event to actually happen. Your money is locked up longer, so you should have a higher rate of return. With the flash loan, as we talked about earlier, this is something that happens very quickly. It's within a transaction. There's really no delay. It's all within multiple steps on a transaction. There's a loan that's taken out at the beginning and then there is payback at the end. It's instantaneous, there's no duration.
Play video starting at :2: and follow transcript2:00
There's no credit risk. If there's anything that goes wrong, this is an atomic transaction and we revert the original state. We've been through things like this.
Play video starting at :2:18 and follow transcript2:18
This is, again, a very innovative idea.
Play video starting at :2:25 and follow transcript2:25
Let's talk about the use of a flash loan. One of the main uses is arbitrage.
Play video starting at :2:38 and follow transcript2:38
Arbitrage is in many different forms, it might be prices that are different, and different exchanges. It might be lending and borrowing rates that differ between different protocols. There's many different ways. Arbitrage is something that is profitable for the arbitrageur. But arbitraries also plays an important role in the financial system in that it drives prices to where they should be. If the price is too high somewhere compared to somewhere else, then arbitrage will equalize those prices. That's a good thing because the people buying at the price that was too high, well, they're not getting a very good deal. They're getting a price that's inflated. These flashed loans are important within this world of arbitrage. That difference, of course, is that when we think of arbitrage, we think of hedge funds or high net worth investors. In this world, it doesn't matter who you are because the flash loan doesn't require collateral.
Play video starting at :4: and follow transcript4:00
In traditional finance, you need to have the collateral to do the actual borrowing. For an arbitrage opportunity, it's restricted to the wealthiest. They make the money after that. It's not available to the average person. I talk about financial democracy a lot in this learning experience. Well, this is just an example. We've talked about flash loans with Ave. With Ave, we had an example of refinancing a loan. In the Ave example of the flash loan was a very nice example that you're locked into our rate for a loan, but then you see the possibility of having the same loan at a much lower rate. We went through the two different possibilities. One would be just to pay back the original loan, take out a new loan. The other possibility was to use a flash loan and do everything in one transaction. Effectively refinance your loan from a higher rate to a lower rate. Again, I want you to think of the bigger picture here, that if enough people are doing that, then the rates tend to equalize. Then that means that everybody gets a fair deal. Again, arbitrage are very important here. I want to use flash loans and a different type of example for dydx. That is an example that capitalizes upon the prices being different on different exchanges. The previous example with Ave was refinancing a loan, which is an arbitrage situation, want to get the lowest possible. Now, we're actually going to look at a situation where we've got two different prices and we want to capitalize upon that. We'll start things off. We've got an exchange rate for a 1,000 DAI. For ETH on Uniswap is six ETH for 1,000 die. That's just what we observe on Uniswap. Now, suppose on dYdX, we've got a spot price of 5 ETH for 1000 DAI.
Play video starting at :6:48 and follow transcript6:48
Notice that the ETH are much more expensive on dYdX. How is it more expensive? Well I've got 1000 DAI, which is $1000. On dYdX, that 1000 buys me 5 ETH, but on Uniswap, I can get six.
Play video starting at :7:15 and follow transcript7:15
Basically it's more expensive on dYdX. Let's go through the mechanics of how we can actually make this work. I've got a diagram for this, but let me just say it first. What we're going to do is we're going to take a flash loan for 1000 DAI. We're going to exchange it on Uniswap for 6 ETH. We're going to use five of the six to trade for 1000 DAI on dYdX. We're going to repay the flash loan with 1000 DAI, and then we got a profit of 1 ETH. All of this in a single transaction. Let's go through the diagram and the steps so you can see what's happening. Again we've got two different exchanges. We've got Uniswap, we got dYdX, the price of ETH is different. Uniswap is cheaper, so 1000 DAI gets you 6 ETH, and on dYdX, it is 5 ETH for 1000. The first thing you do is to take out a free flash loan for 1000 DAI. The next thing we're going to use those 1000 DAI to purchase the ETH on the cheaper exchange at Uniswap. When we exchanged the 1000 DAI, we're going to get 6 ETH, that's step number 3. Then we're going to take five of the six to settle the flash loan with dYdX, and the profit we've got is 1 ETH. Again, in one transaction. Now, of course, this is a stylized example here with a very large price difference, and also it's a very small transaction using only $1000. I'm going to show you some situations in the fourth course on defined risks where a loan is taken out, again with no collateral, for $200 million to do a complex arbitrage like this. We'll see flash loans all over the place. Again, this is quite a powerful idea.
Play video starting at :9:57 and follow transcript9:57
Dydx just recently on August 3rd, 2021, announced their governance token. We've talked about governance in terms of DAI, MakerDAw, which is their Maker token. We've talked about the comp, A C-O-M-P token for compound, Uni, and now dYdx has just launched their token, which is also called DYDX, but all in capitals. There's considerable detail on their website but this was their next step to become fully decentralized. It's interesting in particular that this is focused on the layer 2 protocol where much of the action is happening with dYdX. I just want to step back a little bit to tell you how this usually works. That a protocol is launched and it has aspirations to be fully decentralized, but when it's launched it isn't. The developers retain a lot of control over what's actually happening, and this is useful because there's often a lot of fine tuning that has to happen. But it's also a risk because if the developers are nefarious, they could potentially take advantage of those that are participating in the protocol. But often it's the case that there is an aspiration to be fully decentralized, and that aspiration is realized not all the time, but for the leading protocols that we're talking about at least, this is very important. Recently dYdX has launched their governance token. Remember, we've got these different types of tokens, The equity token, the C token or the Y token that we just talked about. Those represent a share of a liquidity pool where we've got utility tokens like stable coins. The governance token is something different in that the governance actually votes on changes in the protocol. That might be major changes, that might be minor changes of parameters, but that is the mechanism whereby things can change.

# Perpetual futures
Let me continue with dYdX because there's something else that they do that's really fascinating. It's the idea of perpetual futures. What is that? Let's go through what this actually means. The traditional futures contract has got an expiration. You buy it could be crude oil for delivery in September. There's various different explorations. But with perpetual futures, there's no expiration to the contract, effectively it's reverting every day.
Play video starting at ::47 and follow transcript0:47
With futures, you're just betting on the price going up or going down. That's it. If you believe that the price is going to go up, then you go long so you're buying and usually you're buying in the future. In my example, if you think the price of oil is going to go up, then you want to actually go by a long contract for, let's say September, and hopefully, the prices is well above that and you get to buy cheap. Every day the contract is rewritten, if the price goes up. Its re- written, and essentially this is a bet on price appreciation. Of course the other side is a short futures where if the price you believe is going to go down, then you sell. Again, this is a protocol that allows for a futures contract with no particular expiration.
Play video starting at :1:50 and follow transcript1:50
This is also something that you could use with leverage, or without leverage. It's completely your choice. Let's go through what's actually happening here. For those of you that are experts on futures and forwards, this is just a swap, and it consists of a portfolio of one day forwards of features. This is effectively what this is. It is intriguing that we don't have a fixed exploration.
Play video starting at :2:32 and follow transcript2:32
There's another interesting aspect here. That is that if you've got a lot of explorations, then there might not be a lot of liquidity for certain expiration dates. You can actually look at this even in centralized finance, where you can pull up, let's say again, the crude oil futures, which go up many years but many of the expirations, there's almost no trading and that's a big market in the world today. Even a very large market like crude oil, there's issues with illiquidity amongst many contracts. Having just one contract, the perpetual futures seems to get around that problem of illiquidity. Basically what the perpetual futures actually does, you've got an index price and again, the index price is defined in terms of, let's say, an average amongst the major exchanges so you need some benchmark index price. Think of this as the spot price.
Play video starting at :4: and follow transcript4:00
In terms of the Bitcoin US dollar perpetual futures on dYdX.
Play video starting at :4:11 and follow transcript4:11
DYdX uses the MakerDAO Oracle. There is a popular Oracle to actually use and it essentially looks at a number of exchanges that are trusted. In the previous course, we actually went through examples of exchanges that were not real exchanges in that the trading volume didn't make any sense and other aspects that we went through. In this particular Oracle Binance, Bitfinex, Bitstamp, Bittrex, Coinbase Pro, Gemini and Kraken. These are well-known exchanges. Essentially what we get is a price and average price for the index. Again, that's going to be used as an input. Let's go through some of the mechanics of the perpetual futures. We've got an investor, they have to deposit some collateral after this, and they need to decide whether to go long or short. The leverage that's allowed here, interestingly, is up to 25 times. That's huge. Again if you're trading something like Bitcoin US dollar, Bitcoins volatility is like 90 percent on an annualized basis. The S&amp;P 500,15 percent, gold is 15 percent. Ethereum is about the same, 90-100 percent. Anytime you add leverage, you increase the effect of volatility. For example, if you're running at 90, let's say bitcoin, and then you do 50 percent leverage, then your effective volatility is double than 90, so 180 percent. Now we're talking 25 times. The contract itself, it could trade as a premium or a discount to the index. Obviously, the index will be changing through time as the price of the underlying is changing through time. But there could be a difference between the actual contract price and the index price, and that's going to be an important issue in implementing the perpetual futures. There is a funding rate. The way this actually works is that one side is going to pay the other. This depends upon both the index move and this premium in terms of the contract price and the index price.
Play video starting at :7:20 and follow transcript7:20
It can be a premium or discount. If there's a premium, the contract is trading higher than the index then the funding rate is going to be positive. Anybody who's a buyer or who is long betting on the price to go up is going to pay the short. The funding rate is purely a function of the size of the gap like a premium. On the other side, if the contract is trading below the index price then there's a discount. In that particular case, the shorts are going to pay the longs. This is a mechanism that happens every day. This is a way to keep the future's contract price as close as possible to the underlying index. The funding rate effectively creates this incentive and essentially it's an incentive to take the opposing side. If that premium gets too big, then some of the longs are going to be sellers. When they're selling, that's going to drive the contract price closer to the index price. It's unattractive that the long needs to pay the short. They'll just get out of their position. This basically drives the contract price very close to the index price.
Play video starting at :9:11 and follow transcript9:11
This is again part of the dYdX protocol. This is again completely open and you can see how these things actually trade the various different markets. Again, it's open to considerable leverage.
Play video starting at :9:36 and follow transcript9:36
The funding rate is updated effectively in continuous time but it's really only applied at the time the user opens, closes, or changes a position.
Play video starting at :9:54 and follow transcript9:54
This is part of the mechanics of how this actually works. We need to explore the mechanics in some detail. I mentioned already that dYdX operates in layer 2. This happened actually in August or April 20th of 2021. dYdX moved the perpetual features to layer 2. I want to remind you that we'll go into much more detail on layer 2 and the mechanic to layer 2 in the next course on [inaudible] risks and opportunities. But it's effectively something that's off chain but secure with effectively a multi-signature vault. As already mentioned, the advantage of this, no gas fee. That's a big deal. Something is going on in the layer 2 actively, but there's no gas fees. Again, we've got a pretty extreme leverage. Margin, of course, we've got margins with perpetual features. You need to put some collateral in. There's leverage that's allowed. But as with traditional features, we've got initial margin and a maintenance margin. That basically means that if the initial margin is 10 percent, there is another threshold that's a little lower. If you hit that threshold, then you need to repost the margin right up to the 10 percent. So that's how it works. However, if you don't post, then you can be liquidated.
Play video starting at :11:47 and follow transcript11:47
Again, in traditional finance, you get a margin call about this and decentralized finance is nothing like that. If you're not watching this carefully, a keeper is going to come in and liquidate your position.
Play video starting at :12:8 and follow transcript12:08
Again, given that we're going to talk about futures, and many have not had a course on futures or options. Just want to make sure that everybody is on board in terms of how this actually works. In a traditional future, if you think the asset is going to go up in price, then you actually enter into a contract to buy that asset in the future at a price that you think in the future is going to be higher than that price. Effectively you're locking in a lower price if there is appreciation. Of course, if the price goes down, that's bad news for you. You're going to be a loser on that. This is again, a way to speculate on the price of an asset without actually putting up 100 percent collateral. It makes sense. Let's say you think the price of Bitcoin is going to go up. Well, one possibility is that you just go buy a Bitcoin. If it goes up, well, you make some money. If it goes down, you lose some money. Well, another possibility is to agree to buy Bitcoin in the futures market. We do have futures markets in traditional finance for Bitcoin.
Play video starting at :13:44 and follow transcript13:44
Bitcoin is traded, the theorem is traded in traditional centralized markets. Those with regular or futures contracts with fixed explorations, and of course, all of the costs that are associated with those centralized institutions. The idea of the futures is, well, maybe I don't have the money to buy a Bitcoin. I do have, let's say 10 percent of the money. What I could do is to buy on the futures and essentially pledge the 10 percent as the margin. If the price goes up, that's great. The price goes down, that could be wiped out. I want you to understand like how the traditional long futures work and short is the same thing that you think that the price of the asset is going to go down. You see the price today and then you agree to sell at some point in the future at a price that you think is actually a very high price compared to where you think the asset is going. Again, as the market falls, anybody who has short is going to get a good deal if they're buying in traditional futures. Essentially, what you're doing is that you've agreed to sell in the future at a certain price. If the price drops, you go buy at the cheaper price, and then you can sell at the more expensive price. That's where you make your profit. Again the profit is going to be the difference between the contract price and the market price. Very good idea that has a long history in traditional finance and I will admit that trading costs for futures generally are very small compared to, let's say, training costs and other things like bonds or equities. Futures are traditional finance market that's got low on trading costs. But we're going to move this now to decentralized finance. What about the risks here? Obvious that one source of risk is the other side. Somebody is agreeing to buy, somebody is agreeing to sell.
Play video starting at :16:35 and follow transcript16:35
If you've got extreme margin, then is possible with a big price move that you can blow through your collateral. The position would be closed, but it might be closed at a loss. In traditional finance, you've got a clearinghouse that deals with situations like that and provide some insurance. In decentralized finance, there are also reserved polls for extreme volatility and we've talked about that in terms of our lending or protocols to have like a reserved pool or a global settlement in the context of maker. But this is definitely a risk and it's especially a risk if you've got a very high leverage. Because with the higher the leverage, the price move becomes smaller and smaller that wipes out the collateral. The more leveraged, the higher the risk of actually going underwater with a futures situation. The other thing that's important is that futures are not options. With an option. For example, in my crude oil example, I've got a call option where let's say I agree to buy a 100 barrels of oil at $70 a barrel in September. If the price is 90 in September, then that's great news because I get to buy at 70 and I can just instantly sell at 90. Indeed, I could just sell the option just before and I don't need to do anything about delivery. I'm not interested in receiving a 100 barrels of crude oil. If the price isn't 90 but 60, then I don't exercise the option so I walk away.
Play video starting at :18:44 and follow transcript18:44
Think about it. Why would I exercise the option to buy a 100 barrels at $70 and then sell the oil at 60. I just let the option expire. It's out of the money. With options, you've got upside, but your downside is limited. That's why they're called options. But with futures, there's nothing like that. For options, to get that just one-sided payoff, you actually pay a premium for it. Having the one side, you actually pay for. Whether it's a call option or a put option. But with futures, there's nothing like that. If the price goes up, if you're long, you make money. If the price goes down, you lose money. If the price continues to go down, you might actually go through all of your collateral and at that point, you're closed out. The important thing here is futures are obligations. There's no optionality right here.
Play video starting at :20:7 and follow transcript20:07
Given that these are obligations, we need some mechanism to make sure that there isn't a big price move. That basically you go through all the collateral and somebody's going to lose some money. It's really important to actually enforce. Let's go back to our margins because it's going to be important in terms of how this works. We said a maintenance margin. Remember there's an initial margin, maintenance margin. Let's say it's five percent. If the price of the asset drops, if you're long and you're actually paying out because it's actually dropping. If we get close to that five, or if we hit the five, then we need to repost margin to go back up to the initial margin, which is 10 percent. If you don't do that, the exchange is going to liquidate your position. I'm talking about a traditional exchange. You'll get a margin call and if you don't post additional collateral, then your position is closed out. Let's say drops from five percent to four percent, you're closed out. But there's still some collateral left over so you've got that four percent, that collateral back.
Play video starting at :21:38 and follow transcript21:38
Again, the maintenance margin it's going to be very important and I want to draw the distinction between what happens on dY dX in a traditional exchange. Some of this, you can probably guess what I'm about to say. But if you fall below that five percent, then there's going to be a keeper that comes in and closes your position out. Now this is different than a traditional exchange. Remember I said that, well, suppose that five percent you go to four percent, you're closed out, and then you would get the four percent back. Not here. The keeper gets to keep what's left over as a reward. Again, a strong incentive to watch that maintenance margin. Liquidation is effectively instantaneous. This happens really quickly.
Play video starting at :22:46 and follow transcript22:46
Of course, there's no centralized exchange. There's no clearinghouse. This happens again very quickly. There's no trading hours. These are contracts that are perpetual. It's not the third Friday of the month where there're settlement of the actual futures. Futures settle every day but there's an expiration date in traditional finance. These have no maturity dates. Very interesting concept and very important innovation in Debye.

# perpetual futures example
So now let's actually do an example of how this works. And we talked kind of theoretically. I've got a stylized example that will go through and look at the mechanics of how perpetual futures actually works. So let's start with an example. The Bitcoin is worth 10,000 USDC, which means $10,000. So an investor is going to initiate a long position by putting 1,000 USDC as collateral. So this is a lever bet. So if it was unlettered, then the investor would deposit 10,000 USDC. But they're only depositing 10%. So let's actually go through what happens if the price moves. So suppose the price goes up by 5%. So this means that the Bitcoin goes from 10,000 to $10,500. Well the profit is going to be 500. So let's think about this in terms of an investor that simply bought the Bitcoin, if you bought the Bitcoin, which means you're fully collateralized. You put $10,000 out It goes to 10,500. Well, you paid 5%. Now let's look at the example of the futures where we've got an investor puts up only $1,000 but actually makes the same amount of money, 500. So notice the rate of return here is 50%. Okay and you can probably see where I'm going here. So if you're 100% collateralized, your return is 5%. The leverage that you've got in terms of putting only $1,000 down, but you're controlling 10,000 is 10 times. Because you're controlling the value of 10,000 with only $1,000. So 10 times 5% is 50%. So you can see this is how this works, if the price moved in your direction. So I want to think about this in a different way, and I've got some diagrams to show you. So we could think about that, this particular investor is taking a long position at 10,000. So effectively there committing to purchase or to buy a 10,000. So there's an obligation of 10,000. So you can take this obligation to pay the 10,000 is a negative balance, because according to the contract you have agreed to buy at 10,000. So the investors already committed collateral of 1,000. So what's actually owed is 9,000, and this is sometimes called the short or long balance. On the other side, the investors committed and this is the other side of the ledger for this investor. The investor has committed to buy one Bitcoin. So that's valuable. So you can think of the investor as having a positive balance of 10,000 at the current price. The collateralization ratio is 10,000 divided by 9,000, which is 111%. And that's very close to the allowed leverage with the 10% margin. So in terms of the diagram here, we see this investor, we've got initial margin of 10%. We've got a maintenance margin of 5%. And the long balance is kind of the value of what you're going to get, and that is 10,000. The short balance is what you owe and that's the 10,000, but you've already paid 1,000. So you've got basically the short balance of $9,000. And again you can see how to calculate the margin here. And the margin is 10,000 divided by 9,000 -1 which is 11%. And this is for a long position. Now let's consider what happens if the price goes up by 10%. We previously did an example where the price goes up by 5% but let's look at 10%. So 10%, the price of Bitcoin goes from 10,000 to 11,000. So now the long balance is basically again the value of what you're going to get, that's now 11,000. So it's gone up in value. But you're short balance is the same because you committed to buy a 10,000, you've already put 1,000 in. So the short balance is identical at 9,000. So again, you're effective margin here is 11,000 divided by 9,000 -1, 22.2%. So that's well above the initial margin and the trader could actually withdraw some money here. Close the position if you want to close the position you can close it, you're going to have a profit of 1,000 USDC. Which is a return on investment of 100%. And again let's kind of go through that math that I kind of suggested. So we're putting up only 10%. So you gotta leverage of 10 times here. The price of the asset goes up by 10%. Our profit we make $1,000, we invested $1,000. So the profit is effect that we've doubled the amount, so we get that $1,000 a margin back plus the appreciation of 1,000. So the total positions 2,000 divided by 1,000, 100% rate of return. Notice the relation 10% appreciation times 10 times the margin is 100% rate of return. Okay, so this is just an example of a long position. So I also want to go through the mechanics of a short position, the long position where the price actually goes down. If you're short this would be ideal, but unfortunately you are long. So again anytime you're long you want the price to go up, sometimes the price goes down, and this is an example of the price going down. So let's go through the mechanics, let's say the price of Bitcoin goes down by 7.5%. So it goes from 10,000 to 9,250. So the value of what you're going to get is 9,250. The short balance again is unaffected. So we have an obligation of 10,000, we've already put in 1,000. So our short balance is 9,000. So calculating the margin here would be 9,250 divided by 9,000 subtract 1, 2.8%. This is below the 5% margin requirement. So what's going to happen here? The keeper is going to come in and they will essentially sell the Bitcoin payback $9,000, whatever is left over is 250 USDC that goes to the keeper. So again this is different than traditional finance and that the keeper is collecting the extra margin. So this is an example of a long position with different price moves with a liquidation involved here. So the short position obviously works in a very similar way. So let's go through the short position also. Here the investors committed to sell a Bitcoin at 10,000, and that's a positive balance. And you're going to supplement that with a margin deposit of 1,000. So the total positive balance is 11,000. And the investors negative balance is the obligation to buy that one Bitcoin at 10,000. So the collateralization ratio is 11,000 divided by 10,000 which is a margin of 10%. So suppose that the underlying asset goes up by 5% and value, so it Bitcoin increases by 5%, then we go to 10,500. And then the margin percentage becomes 11,000, which is unchanged divided by the 10,500 which has changed. And when we calculate that margin, it is 4.76%. And this position will be subject to liquidation. Again, if you're short, you want the price to go down, but the price has gone up. And it hasn't gone up by that much, only 5%, but that 5% is going to trigger liquidation. So again, the difference here at the net balance of 500 is the incentive for the keeper to actually come in and close that position. So let's talk beyond perpetual futures. There's interesting work that I reference, that has talked about these concepts in the past but there's the possibility of also doing perpetual options. This has been proposed but not implemented yet, perhaps by the time that you're watching this course, we will have perpetual options. So again, there's a history of this idea in the traditional finance literature, but nobody's really implemented it in traditional centralized finance. It's interesting to me in particular that some of these ideas become possible in decentralized finance that were not feasible in centralized finance. So let me kind of summarize here, perpetual futures, a great idea. It allows people and again it doesn't matter who you are to participate in the appreciation or depreciation of crypto assets without having to make a large investment. So without having to buy the entire amount, you can use some leverage and participate in the upside or the downside. This is something that's use for speculation. It can also be used for hedging. Okay, so futures are not just for speculation, it might be that you want to protect the value of your position over the short term, so you might have a portfolio of Kryptos. But you think in the short term, there is going to be some price depreciation, but you don't want to sell your portfolio. So the easy way to deal with that is to actually do a short position and the futures. And then if the price actually goes down well, you protect it because you're profiting on the perpetual and the value of your underlying portfolios going down. That's true, but that's offset by the gains on your short position, so provides a very natural hedge, of course this works both ways. So if you're wrong and you take that short position well, you're going to lose money on your futures, but your portfolio is actually going up in value. So again, it's a hedge, the hedges two sided in that you're protecting your downside, but you're also eliminating the upside if you get it wrong. And that is what a futures hedge actually does. So again, our table of the solutions that that dydx offers, they're very substantial. This is a decentralized protocol, as I mentioned, they've got their decentralized governance token capital dydx. This is open to anybody. If you're trading derivatives and centralized finance, you need to be qualified to actually do that. So you have to go through the process at your broker to become qualified. This is open to anybody. We've got free flash loans that are available, so arbitrage is now democratized. So anybody can do it, not just hedge funds or high net worth investors. This is all algorithmically done, we've got optimized interest rates, free flash loans. So this is much more efficient than centralist finance, and of course we've got interoperability and again, everything is open. It's kind of obvious that everything is open. Think of the keepers, they see everything. They see when that collateralization ratio drops below 5% and then they act. So this is something that is open for everybody. Whereas in traditional finance, in terms of what happens in a traditional, for example futures or options market, we get minimal information. And in terms of the actual traders, well, maybe the exchange knows the traders, but anybody from the outside, very difficult to tell.

# Syntetix
So next I want to talk about synthetics which is a really cool idea and again is a derivative but it's going to be different than what we talked about with Dy Dx. So this is something that I believe is purely a result of the DeFi innovation. So this is the type of asset that is hard to think about in traditional finance. So effectively what we're going to do is we're going to create a derivative and the value is going to be based upon an underlying asset that is not owned or s crowd. How is that possible? Okay. So this is what synthetics is doing. And again this is very interesting idea. And of course I've got examples of this. So the idea here is that the company is going to issue since which I'll talk about a lot these are tokens and these tokens are pegged to an underlying price feed and they're backed by a collateral. So if you really think about this, that kind of should remind you of maker DAO's DAI. So again the DAI is pegged to the dollar are very close to a dollar. And to get that you've got this over collateralization of DAI. Okay so we're going to have something similar but different. So the price feeds are going to come from an oracle and in particular will use chain links decentralized oracle. And theoretically these synths could track any asset. Okay so again in the stable coin space you've got coins that could track let's say U S dollar but it doesn't have to be the U S dollar. You can set up that mechanism with let's say make DAO to create something that is pegged to something else. Okay so what are we going to track here? And it turns out that synthetics has got wide range and I'm just showing you a few of the assets that they're tracking. So it could be the Kryptos like Btc. Bitcoin Ethereum X R P. Is ripple. And notice the S. Before. That's the synthetic versions of Bitcoin. So it could be traditional currencies. Fiat currencies. So S, U S D. That's going to be something very similar to US D C. Or DAI. But we've got other countries heroes, the yen. Australian dollar, swiss frank. And again I'm just showing you some of these and it could be that you track to a stock index for example the FTSE, the NIKKEI. Or a stock. There's TSLA, google, apple, Facebook. So again these are are tokenized ways to basically participate in the price appreciation or depreciation of certain assets. So why stop there? We've got commodities to so XAU is gold X A G Is silver. We've got OIL which I mentioned a little earlier and notice the last one is also OIL. But as I OIL. So what does that mean? Well I stands for inverse. So the S tokens are participating on the upside. And the I is you buy something where you think it's actually going to go down. Okay. So it's so basically you've got these tokens and a long position in a synth is called an sToken. And I showed you lots of them and a short position is called an iToken. So I'm sure do I OIL but it could be iETH. All of these are synthetic because they depend upon a price feed. And you're probably thinking right now, okay, why even stop at the assets? We've already talked about so many other things that you could tokenize based upon a price feed that you decide upon and you need to have a reliable oracle of course for this to work. They use the chain link oracle. Okay. So there's also a platform token and the platform token. Let's not confuse the SNX token for a governance token. It's more of a utility token. So it's used within the network. So remember there's three different types of tokens. All right. So we've got our utility token and this is the SNX. We've also got our equity tokens which represents shares of a liquidity pool and a governance token like maker or comp. So SNX is utility token and it is of course traded. You can see the market capitalization of SNX is almost at the time of of doing this video, a billion dollars and it's actively traded. So how does this work? So when a user mints synth against the platform token? SNX they incur a debt that's proportional to the total outstanding debt and everything denominated in US dollars. And they become responsible for a percentage of the debt in the sense that it unlocks their SNX collateral if they need to return it to US dollars. And this is interesting. The debt is global. So it's across all of the sense so it's shared collectively by all of the holders and it's based upon their percentage of the debt that they own when they opened their position. Okay I'm going to go through some mechanics as to what is actually going on in the background. But again this is like really a different idea and fascinating. So it turns out that the outstanding U S dollar denominated debt is going to change anytime the price level of the synths actually change. And what's crucial is that each holder remains responsible for the same percentage of the global debt that they were responsible for when they minted their sense. Okay so basically if the things that you buy outperform the other sense that are available then you're going to be a winner in this particular type of platform. And again I want to go through some examples this is again a different type of mechanism. So with like a center position. The trader is as long and your long against the entire pools portfolio. So you will make a profit relative to the pool. So you're your bet relative to other things in the pool. So the goal, of course, is to have a return that is greater than the pool are returned. Okay, so what I really want to do is to go through the mechanics of how this actually works, and we're going to do that next.

# Syntetix mecanics
Okay, promise mechanics. Let's go through the mechanics of this kind of mysterious type of protocol. It's mysterious in many different ways. Number one, it's a derivative based upon a price feed rather than something that is collateralized. It is also unusual in that this idea of outperforming the pool of all of the sense.
Play video starting at ::34 and follow transcript0:34
And again we need to look at the mechanics to understand us, so I got some diagrams hopefully will be helpful for you. So let's go through a couple of detailed examples here. So let's start, we've got three traders and each have $20,000, so the total debt is $60,000. So, trader one has got 2 sBTC, so 2 Bitcoin synths that are $10,000 each, so that's $20,000 worth. And one holds 100 sETH, so the synth linked ETH and the price is $200 each, so again that's $20,000. And the third holds $20,000 of sUSD which is priced at $1, so that's also $20,000. So every single trader here has got $20,000 and their share is 33 percent each, the total debt in US Dollars is 60,000 dollars. So again I've got the assumptions you can see and you can see the holdings on the far right 2 sBTC ,100 of the ETH synth and the 20,000 US Dollars per synth. Okay so that's kind of where we start. So now suppose the price of Bitcoin doubles to 20,000 and the price of Ethereum goes up five times from 200 to 1000.
Play video starting at :2:27 and follow transcript2:27
So now let's think of the total debt here, so the total debt becomes higher. So the Bitcoin is doubled in value, so it goes from 20,000 to 40,000.
Play video starting at :2:42 and follow transcript2:42
The ETH has gone up by a factor of five so it goes from 20,000 to 100,000 and nothing's happened to the value of the dollar. So you put this together and you get $160,000. So each trader is responsible for 1/3 and around a bit but that means $53,300. And it turns out that only the holder of the synthetix Ether is going to be profitable in this particular situation. So again think about the Bitcoin holder, yeah it's great the Bitcoin is doubled but Ethereum did much better. So the value of their position is $40,000 but the value of their debt is 53,300, so it's a negative balance of 13,300. The holder of Ethereum has done really well because their Ethereum has gone from 20,000 to 100,000, the obligation is 53,300 and there's a positive balance of 46,700. And the US Dollar holder where there is no change in value, they have 1/3 of the debt here. So they've done the worst because that means that they've gone and now I have got this negative balance of 33,300. So you can see that what's really important here is how you do relative to the pool. So even though Bitcoin did really well, you're going to be a loser on this because Ethereum did better than Bitcoin.
Play video starting at :4:40 and follow transcript4:40
So let's go back and take another example. And now what we're going to do is to have the price of Bitcoin falling, the price of Bitcoin falls to $5,000. And let's say the price of ETH also falls to $100. Okay so basically both Bitcoin and Ethereum have dropped by 50% and we'll assume the dollar, there is no change for the dollar. So if we go through and figure out what the obligation is now, well we used to have 20,000 for the Bitcoin but now it's only 10,000. We used to have 20,000 for the Ethereum and now it's only 10,000 and we've got 20,000 of US Dollars, so the debt is now $40,000.
Play video starting at :5:33 and follow transcript5:33
And it turns out that when we divide that by three that's 13,300. And in this particular case only the US Dollar investor is profitable. So you can see that both of the the holder of the sBTC and the sETH are losers here in terms of net balance of negative 3,300. But the US Dollar investor has done really well ,so they're up 6,600. So hopefully you can see here what's going on that if you believe the prices are actually going down, there's different ways you can actually implement this. But one way to implement is to actually go in and buy the sUSD, okay? So notice it profited when the US Dollar effectively did better than what happened with the other synxs/g1 I hear. So synthetix has got a platform decentralized exchange and there is a way a mechanism whereby trading actually happens. And basically the contracts are enforcing so that the users can only redeem their fees if they maintain a sufficient collateralization ratio. So no surprise that collateralization is going to be crucial in this protocol as well as other protocols, so this is again a very innovative idea. However, this is something that could be extremely volatile. The example that I gave you, you could see what happens in terms of the negative balances. So it turns out that the collateralization ratio currently to mint these synths and participate in the staking rewards is very high, so collateralization currently is 800%. So this is way higher than what we talked about previously for example and make her dow, we talked about pledging Ethereum and borrowing die minting die. That was like 150%, this is 800%. So it's also the case that some of these SNX tokens are inflationary. So they're also used not just as utility in terms of trading on the platform, but they're also used to reward those that participate. And we've seen this before and defy that you can create incentives by allocating some tokens to those that actually participate. And we talked in detail about how compound actually does this. Well many of these defy protocols actually do this. So basically this is used as a way to get people to add liquidity to actually put up some of these large margins. So it's a way to increase activity and the popularity of the platform. So it's very interesting again that when this was originally launched, it was pretty narrow, but I've already shown you that they've expanded into different assets like stocks and stock indices and who knows where this actually ends. There will be options and again this idea of using the price feed is in my opinion, a very powerful idea. So back to our solution and problem sheet so we can create a synthetix asset that can track any real world asset, that's like a powerful idea.
Play video starting at :10:27 and follow transcript10:27
So you've effectively tokenized, all you need is a reliable price feed and it doesn't even need to be traded, you just need like a feed of data. Anyone can access and this is something that is efficient in terms of all you need is the price feed, you don't need a trading floor or anything like that. And effectively because you're backed by the price feed, there's no slippage, which again is unique. So of course as all of these protocols the synthetics protocol is interoperable with others as we will see a little later on. And the fourth course in particular will go through some examples where we go from protocol to protocol.